Link to static website: http://ds5110-a2-frontend-175407131980.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/

This end-to-end pipeline for this IMDb Sentiment Analysis Task (starting at the frontend) shows a user an S3 static website, where they can upload a .csv or .parquet IMDb dataset, determine an appropriate shard size for the dataset size, and watch as the backend completes the task (with a live tracker displaying worker completion and coordinator timing (each request, the time that request took, and a timestamp), which mostly shows a status poll every 3 seconds the system is running. This website design is supported by 4 static files
placed in an S3 website bucket.

More towards the backend, the system places the user-uploaded data into an S3 data bucket, where it can be accessed by a coordinator lambda. Based on the user specifications, this coordinator splits the data into shards (different datasets) for implementation across up to 5 different lambda workers. Each lambda worker (which live in a container) conducts sentiment analysis on its assigned shard using the DistilBERT model from HuggingFace. Once completed, results are sent to the frontend via an API Gateway (Lambda Function URLs were tried, but were blocked by AWS Learner Academy).

Once the static website was deployed, I was able to conduct the experiments. I had the claude CLI complete Experiment 1, which ran in
about 14 seconds, and correctly classified the 5 IMDb reviews as good or bad. This was a good way to examine the lambda cold start overhead; even though the dataset size was small, model loading alone accounts for the majority of per-worker startup time. As for Experiment 2, I tested the different shard sizes (100-500 rows of data per shard). 100/shard ran for 1m and 36s (but had to split up the tasks into 2 waves, where the second wave couldn't start until the first wave had finished), 300/shard, 400/shard, and 500/shard took 1m 48s, 2m 24s, and 2m 57s respectively (linear growth due to decreased parallelism of tasks for each lambda worker); finally, since we were limited to 5 lambda workers and our input dataset had 1000 rows, 200 rows of data per shard yielded the fastest results (1m 24s). While the lambda coordinator tends to operate slower when more shards are deployed, this difference is miniscule (matter of milliseconds); since accuracy as well was identical across all shard sizes, 200/shard is the best choice for this case. 
 
